
Contemporary vision science requires substantial computational resources and
expertise, yet traditional vision science training does not typically focus on
learning, maintaining, or keeping up-to-date with modern computational
tools. Simultaneously, the space of open source software tools, such as
fMRIprep, and open standards, such as BIDS, available for vision and
neuroimaging research has exploded in recent years. This environment greatly
facilitates robust and reproducible research but is simultaneously difficult to
navigate for investigators of all experience levels.

This workshop will demonstrate how laboratory management, reproducible
scientific practices, and contemporary neuroimaging analysis methods can all be
greatly simplified using existing tools that abstract away the technical
complexities of managing software and hardware resources. We will begin this
workshop by introducing the [Neurodesk platform](https://www.neurodesk.org/), a
free, open-source system for managing laboratory data, installations of research
software, and computational jobs for lab members. Neurodesk is modular, includes
most common neuroscience software tools, and can run as easily on a researcherâ€™s
PC, in the cloud, or on a lab server. All participants in the workshop will be
given access to a Neurodesk cloud instance that can be used to follow along with
tutorials and examples in the session (no installation required by
participants). We will discuss how Neurodesk can be used as a teaching,
management, and high performance computing tool before demonstrating the use of
several well-established open-source software tools in Neurodesk by creating a
simple, reproducible workflow together that is focused in particular on
connecting models of the cortical surface to voxel-based analyses, including the
drawing of visual area boundaries and features on the cortical surface. Finally,
we will discuss cutting-edge tools for brain annotation: convolutional neural
networks.

This workshop is intended for all audiences: students and junior researchers can
expect to learn about powerful tools and techniques that facilitate high-quality
research, while senior investigators can expect to learn about valuable tools
for lab management and teaching. All researchers stand to benefit from the
adoption of community-supported open-source tools such as Neurodesk and the many
independent tools supported by Neurodesk that we will demonstrate.
