![How to Stop Worrying and Love Neuroimaging of the Visual Cortex](images/header.webp "How to stop worrying...")

---

## About this Workshop

Visual neuroimaging has never been as powerful or as complex as it is
today. Fortunately, the increase in software complexity in recent years has been
accompanied by the development of powerful tools to automate pipelines, ensure
reproducibility, and simplify software and lab management. **This workshop,
conducted as a satellite event at the 2024 annual meeting of the [Vision
Sciences Society](https://www.visionsciences.org/), will introduce the
participants to these tools and live-code practical tutorials in their use.**
The session will focus on computational approaches to MRI work, but substantial
portions will be applicable to other neuroimaging methods.

As part of registration, all participants will be given access to a cloud-based
computing environment running [Neurodesk](https://www.neurodesk.org/) on which
all tutorials can be performed (a contemporary web-browser is all that is
required for participants to use this interface).  Participants will have access
to the compute environment for at least one month after VSS ends, and tutorials
and lecture recordings will be made public.

Neurodesk is an open source platform that includes many standard neuroscience
software tools and provides them via a browser-based interface. Users can a
command-line, a [Jupyter](https://jupyter.org/) interface, or a graphical
desktop, without needing to install anything but a modern web-browser. Because
the Neurodesk server runs in either a [Docker](https://docker.org/) or
[Singularity](https://sylabs.io/singularity/) container, installation is
simple. It and the tools demonstrated in this workshop can be used as easily on
a lab server, on a personal laptop, or in the cloud.

See the [Program]({{ site.baseurl }}/program) for more information on topics
that will be covered in the workshop. Please [Register]({{ site.baseurl
}}/register) if you wish to attend.


---


## Workshop Abstract

Contemporary vision science requires substantial computational resources and
expertise, yet traditional vision science training does not typically focus on
learning, maintaining, or keeping up-to-date with modern computational
tools. Simultaneously, the space of open source software tools, such as
fMRIprep, and open standards, such as BIDS, available for vision and
neuroimaging research has exploded in recent years. This environment greatly
facilitates robust and reproducible research but is simultaneously difficult to
navigate for investigators of all experience levels.

This workshop will demonstrate how laboratory management, reproducible
scientific practices, and contemporary neuroimaging analysis methods can all be
greatly simplified using existing tools that abstract away the technical
complexities of managing software and hardware resources. We will begin this
workshop by introducing the [Neurodesk platform](https://www.neurodesk.org/), a
free, open-source system for managing laboratory data, installations of research
software, and computational jobs for lab members. Neurodesk is modular, includes
most common neuroscience software tools, and can run as easily on a researcherâ€™s
PC, in the cloud, or on a lab server. All participants in the workshop will be
given access to a Neurodesk cloud instance that can be used to follow along with
tutorials and examples in the session (no installation required by
participants). We will discuss how Neurodesk can be used as a teaching,
management, and high performance computing tool before demonstrating the use of
several well-established open-source software tools in Neurodesk by creating a
simple, reproducible workflow together that is focused in particular on
connecting models of the cortical surface to voxel-based analyses, including the
drawing of visual area boundaries and features on the cortical surface. Finally,
we will discuss cutting-edge tools for brain annotation: convolutional neural
networks.

This workshop is intended for all audiences: students and junior researchers can
expect to learn about powerful tools and techniques that facilitate high-quality
research, while senior investigators can expect to learn about valuable tools
for lab management and teaching. All researchers stand to benefit from the
adoption of community-supported open-source tools such as Neurodesk and the many
independent tools supported by Neurodesk that we will demonstrate.
